# GraphConvolutionalNetwork
This project is the result of compilation of our efforts on kaggle competition "Predicting Molecular Properties", https://www.kaggle.com/c/champs-scalar-coupling/overview.

## Problem setting

The exact problem setting can be found on the competition web page. Here we will focus only on some interesting theory aspects and things that dictated our model choice.
The task is to determine scalar coupling constant between given pairs of atoms in the given molecules. 
What is the scalar coupling constant? To answer this question, let's first say a couple of words about nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). Atom nuclei (those who have non-zero spin) have magnetic moment. Thus they can be aligned along applied magnetic field. 
Moreover, if we apply oscillating magnetic field perpindicular to that one, these nuclei start to oscillate in response. As with any forced oscillation, when the frequency of oscillator approaches the frequency of the external force, resonance occurs. 
What we are talking about here is not just an event of resonance, but its practical application, NMR spectroscopy. Different atomic nuclei have different spin and different mass, so they have different resonance frequency, given the same aligning external magnetic field. But there aren't so many elements with non-zero spin in the organic compounds: hydrogen, nitrogen, phosphorus, halogens, and some not-so-rare isotopes of other elelements, like carbon-13.<br><br>
So what't the catch? Nuclei in atoms and molecules are surrounded by cloud of electrons. These electrons orbiting the atoms partially shield the nuclei from external magnetic field. In molecules the electron clouds are spreaded across the atoms, and electron density, and, thus, magnetic shielding, varies with the exact location of the atom in the molecule. Different shielding leads to different effective field experienced by nuclei, affecting the resonance frequency. This is known as chemical shift.
Different nuclei of the same element resonate on different frequencies depending on their position in a molecule, thus, observing this certain frequencies one can deduce something on the molecular structure. Here we deal with proton NMR, and different protons in the molecule will have different chemical shift. But that's not all. Unlike someone could expect from classical physics, nuclei can align with or against applied external field (low and high enerhy states). One nucleus therefore can distort the magnetic field in its vicinity in either of two directions, affecting neighbouring nuclei. That slightly affects resonance frequency either slightly increasing or decreasing it. This cause signal split. The magnitude of this split, caused by one nucleus on another nucleus is known as coupling constant. While magnetic field created by one nuclei affects another, it also affects electrons and they affect another nuclei as well. This effect is known as indirect spin-spin coupling, or J-coupling, and this is what's this competition is about.
